---
title: Application Templates
workshops: openshift33
workshop_weight: 220
layout: lab
---

### Application templates
Running individual commands can be tedious and error prone for building out
an application. Fortunately for you, all of this configuration can be put together
into a single *Template* which can then be processed to create a full set of
resources. A *Template* may define parameters for certain values, such as DB
username or password, and they can be automatically generated by OpenShift at
processing time.

Administrators can load *Templates* into OpenShift and make them available to
all users, even via the web console. Users can create *Templates* and load them
into their own *Projects* for other users (with access) to share and use.

The great thing about *Templates* is that they can speed up the deployment
workflow for application development by providing a "recipe" of sorts that can
be deployed with a single command.  Not only that, they can be loaded into
OpenShift from an external URL, which will allow you to keep your templates in a
version control system.

Let's combine all of the exercises we have performed in the last three labs into
a single *Template* that we can then instantiate with a single command.  I bet
you are probably hating us now for having you go through all of that work when
you could have issued a single command! Just remember that it is important for
you to understand how to create, deploy, and wire resources together.

<blockquote> In order
for the magic to happen, first create a new project and add the template to the
project:</blockquote>

```bash
oc new-project userX-template
oc create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gshipley/openshift3mlbparks/master/mlbparks-template-eap.json
```

Now we have access to the application template in our project.  As a side note, administrators have the capability to add templates to the general *openshift* project which will in turn provide an application template to any user on the system.

<blockquote>Are you ready for the magic command?  Here it is:</blockquote>

```bash
oc new-app mlbparks-eap
```

You will see the following output:

```bash
--> Deploying template mlbparks for "mlbparks"
     With parameters:
      APPLICATION_NAME=mlbparks
      APPLICATION_DOMAIN=
      SOURCE_REPOSITORY_URL=https://github.com/gshipley/openshift3mlbparks
      SOURCE_REPOSITORY_REF=master
      CONTEXT_DIR=
      HORNETQ_QUEUES=
      HORNETQ_TOPICS=
      HORNETQ_CLUSTER_PASSWORD=BlflcWjX # generated
      GITHUB_WEBHOOK_SECRET=FdhVeba3 # generated
      GENERIC_WEBHOOK_SECRET=pbp4lDMM # generated
      IMAGE_STREAM_NAMESPACE=openshift
      DATABASE_SERVICE_NAME=mongodb
      MONGODB_USER=user7TI # generated
      MONGODB_PASSWORD=4IucG7FYvPeXWKqQ # generated
      MONGODB_DATABASE=sampledb
      MONGODB_ADMIN_PASSWORD=7DlSvtYyAscfL2fC # generated
--> Creating resources with label app=mlbparks ...
    Service "mlbparks" created
    Route "mlbparks" created
    ImageStream "mlbparks" created
    BuildConfig "mlbparks" created
    DeploymentConfig "mlbparks" created
    Service "mongodb" created
    DeploymentConfig "mongodb" created
--> Success
    Build scheduled for "mlbparks" - use the logs command to track its progress.
    Run 'oc status' to view your app.
```

OpenShift will automatically start a build for you. When it is complete, visit
your app. Does it work? Think about how this could be used in your environment.
For example, a template could define a large set of resources that make up a
"reference application", complete with several app servers, databases, and more.
You could deploy the entire set of resources with one command, and then hack on
them to develop new features, microservices, fix bugs, and more.

<blockquote>As a final exercise, look at the template that was used to create the resources for our *mlbparks* application.</blockquote>

```bash
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gshipley/openshift3mlbparks/master/mlbparks-template-eap.json
```
